Title   :  ARTSY: the AARTFAAC Radio Continuum Survey
Abstract: 
We propose to use the output of the normal operations of AARTFAAC to produce an
all sky continuum survey. We plan to map several bands spanning the LOFAR LBA
(if feasible) and HBA bandwidth (8 sub-bands per band, roughly equal to the MSSS
output).

We aim to investigate the spectral properties of the Galaxy and the
extragalactic source population using the output form the survey  as well as
extend the analysis using other similar surveys (eg. Haslam 408 MHz, WMAP,
Planck). These studies will be instrumental in discovering how the spectral
index of the Galactic synchrotron radiation behaves at the lowest frequencies,
and possibly will enable us to discover regions of extremely old Galactic
plasma, visible only at very low frequencies. Galactic foregrounds can be better
modeled using the maps which this survey will provide. The survey can help in
constraining the properties of electron cosmic rays accelerated by the Galaxy
and infer their energy distributions. It will also be useful in studying
galactic supernova remnants as well as HII regions where they are optically
thick to synchrotron emission. Depending on the robustness of the calibration, a
possibility exists that we can also produce polarization maps of the sky, in
which case we can start exploring the magnetic universe.

AARTFAAC has a demonstrated ability to generate high cadence all sky maps. We
will average those data in time and frequency and produce our maps. We will be
confusion limited (8 Jy at 60 MHz, Prasad & Wijnholds, 2012) and have a
resolution of about 1 degree at 60 MHz. This is comparable resolution to the
Haslam 408 MHz survey.

Absolute calibration of the data and comparison to older surveys will present a
challenge. However, our HBA band overlaps with the MWA band, and we will overlap
in sky coverage. We can use the MWA survey (GLEAM) to validate our calibration
and tie it to theirs. Also, a cooperation is needed to produce a true all sky
survey in the HBA."

An aside: I may devote 5 minutes talking about a real-time transient detection
pipeline using the AO flagger statistics. I have tested an initial version of
the algorithm on MSSS archival data and the results are encouraging. A
possibility to adapt it to AARTFAAC data exists and should be explored.

