Title: Enhancing fast transient science and imaging capabilities of AARTFAAC
using the E-field Parallel Imaging Correlator

Abstract:

In  order  to  meet  the  demands  of fast  survey  speeds  and  sensitivity  to
large-scale  structure, modern  interferometers at  low frequencies  tend to  be
compact arrays  made of large  numbers of  antennas. Examples include  the LOFAR
core,  SKA,  HERA,  LWA,  CHIME and  HIRAX.  Traditional  radio  interferometers
correlate  data between  antennas whose  cost scales  steeply as  the number  of
antennas  squared. This  will become  prohibitive  for arrays  with hundreds  to
thousands of antenna elements. Direct imaging  layouts proposed in the past have
relied on placing  antenna elements on a  regular grid to take  advantage of the
computational efficiency  of Fast  Fourier Transform (FFT)  algorithms. However,
they require the antennas  to be identical and placed on  a grid which restricts
the image quality and science applications.

The Modular Optimal Frequency Fourier (MOFF) algorithm achieves the same results
while  avoiding  the expensive  correlations  between  antennas. It  can  handle
heterogeneous  arrays and  generic antenna  layouts  with the  efficiency of  an
FFT.  For dense  layouts such  as in  the aforementioned  telescopes, MOFF  will
result in significant savings in computations as the cost scales only as O(N log
N). I  will discuss  the first  implementation of  this versatile  and efficient
architecture in software, namely, the E-field Parallel Imaging Correlator (EPIC)
which  includes a  new calibration  algorithm  (EPICal). EPIC  has already  been
verified on data from the LWA. EPIC is inherently designed to provide calibrated
images  on  very  fast  time  scales.  The  data  rates  with  EPIC  can  be  be
significantly  economical compared  to traditional  correlators. Thus  EPIC will
find enabling applications  in the search of fast radio  transients such as Fast
Radio Bursts (FRB), millisecond pulsars  (MSP) as well as exoplanetary transient
phenomena.

I  will discuss  how EPIC  can be  applied to  AARTFAAC to  further improve  its
capabilities in domains of imaging and enabling fast radio transients science.
